3579 feedback page self hostedlatestupgradesminor upgrade (#3630)
timescale/docs: self-hosted/upgrades/major-upgrade.md

---

import PlanUpgrade from "versionContent/_partials/_plan_upgrade.mdx";
import ConsiderCloud from "versionContent/_partials/_consider-cloud.mdx";
import CheckVersions from "versionContent/_partials/_migrate_self_postgres_check_versions.mdx";
import SupportMatrix from "versionContent/_partials/_migrate_self_postgres_timescaledb_compatibility.mdx";
import ImplementMigrationPath from "versionContent/_partials/_migrate_self_postgres_implement_migration_path.mdx";

# Upgrade TimescaleDB to a major version

A major upgrade is when you update from TimescaleDB `X.<minor version>` to `Y.<minor version>`.
A minor upgrade is when you update from TimescaleDB `<major version>.x`, to TimescaleDB `<major version>.y`.
You can run different versions of TimescaleDB on different databases within the same PostgreSQL instance.
This process uses the PostgreSQL `ALTER EXTENSION` function to upgrade TimescaleDB independently on different
databases.

When you perform a major upgrade, new policies are automatically configured based on your current 
configuration. In order to verify your policies post upgrade, in this upgrade process you export 
your policy settings before upgrading.

<ConsiderCloud />

> This page shows you how to perform a major upgrade, for minor upgrades, see

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This page shows you how to perform a major upgrade. For minor upgrades, see
```

[Upgrade TimescaleDB to a minor version][upgrade-minor].

## Prerequisites

<PlanUpgrade />

## Check the TimescaleDB and PostgreSQL versions

<CheckVersions />

## Plan your upgrade path

Best practice is to always use the latest version of TimescaleDB. Subscribe to our releases on GitHub or use Timescale
Cloud and always get latest update without any hassle.

Check the following support matrix against the versions of TimescaleDB and PostgreSQL that you are
running currently and the versions you want to update to, then choose your upgrade path.

For example, to upgrade from TimescaleDB 1.7 on PostgreSQL 12 to TimescaleDB 2.17.2 on PostgreSQL 15 you 
need to:
1. Upgrade TimescaleDB to 2.10
1. Upgrade PostgreSQL to 15
1. Upgrade TimescaleDB to 2.17.2.

You may need to [upgrade to the latest PostgreSQL version][upgrade-pg] before you upgrade TimescaleDB.

<SupportMatrix />

## Check for failed retention policies

> When you upgrade from TimescaleDB 1, to TimescaleDB 2, scripts

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you upgrade from TimescaleDB 1 to TimescaleDB 2, scripts
```

# Upgrade TimescaleDB to a major version

A major upgrade is when you update from TimescaleDB `X.<minor version>` to `Y.<minor version>`.
A minor upgrade is when you update from TimescaleDB `<major version>.x`, to TimescaleDB `<major version>.y`.
You can run different versions of TimescaleDB on different databases within the same PostgreSQL instance.
This process uses the PostgreSQL `ALTER EXTENSION` function to upgrade TimescaleDB independently on different
databases.

When you perform a major upgrade, new policies are automatically configured based on your current 
configuration. In order to verify your policies post upgrade, in this upgrade process you export 
your policy settings before upgrading.

<ConsiderCloud />

This page shows you how to perform a major upgrade, for minor upgrades, see
[Upgrade TimescaleDB to a minor version][upgrade-minor].

## Prerequisites

- Install the PostgreSQL client tools on your migration machine. This includes `psql`, and `pg_dump`.
- Read [the release notes][relnotes] for the version of TimescaleDB that you are upgrading to.
- Backup your database. Although TimescaleDB and PostgreSQL upgrades are performed in-place, upgrading is an

>   intrusive operation. In case of disaster, [create a database backup][backup], and ensure that the backup

Reviewer 2: Maybe?

```suggestion
  intrusive operation. To protect against disasters, [create a database backup][backup], and ensure that the backup
```
